Add Channel Webhook Events (#1094)
bigcommerce/dev-docs: docs/api-docs/getting-started/webhooks/webhook-events.md

}
```

| Name | Definition |
| -- | -- |
| `scope` | The [event](/api-docs/getting-started/webhooks/webhook-events) registered when the webhook was created. |
| `store_id` | A numerical identifier that is unique to each store. |
| `data` | A lightweight description of the [event](/api-docs/getting-started/webhooks/webhook-events) that triggered the webhook. Will vary depending on the event registered. |

> | `hash` | The payload data json encoded then passed through SH1 encryption. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `hash` | The payload data JSON encoded then passed through SH1 encryption. |

```

Update per [Naming Guidelines](https://intranet.bigcommerce.com/pages/viewpage.action?spaceKey=SST&title=Naming+Guidelines).

> | `created_at` | Unix timestamp of the date the hook was created. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `created_at` | Hook creation date as a Unix timestamp.|

```

> | `producer` | Will always follow the pattern `stores/store_hash`. This is the store that created the webhook. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `producer` | The store that created the webhook. Will always follow the pattern `stores/store_hash`. |

```

## Cart

```json
{
    "scope": "store/cart/created",
    "store_id": "1025646",
    "data": {
        "type": "cart",
        "id": "09346904-4175-44fd-be53-f7e598531b6c"
    },
    "hash": "352e4afc6dd3fc85ea26bfdf3f91852604d57528",
    "created_at": 1561482670,
    "producer": "stores/{store_hash}"
}
```

| Name | Description |
|-|-|

> | store/cart/* | Subscribe to all cart events. This will also subscribe you to cart/lineItem. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| store/cart/* | Subscribe to all cart events. This will also subscribe you to `cart/lineItem`. |

```

> | store/cart/* | Subscribe to all cart events. This will also subscribe you to cart/lineItem. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| store/cart/* | Subscribe to all cart events. This will also subscribe you to `cart/lineItem`. |

```

> | store/cart/created | This webhook will fire whenever a new cart is created, either via a storefront shopper adding their first item to the cart, or when a new cart is created via an API consumer. If it is from the storefront, then it fires when the first product is added to a new session.(The cart did not exist before). For the API it means a `POST` to /carts, (V3 and Storefront API). The `store/cart/updated` hook will also fire.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| store/cart/created | This webhook will fire whenever a new cart is created, either via a storefront shopper adding their first item to the cart, or when a new cart is created via an API consumer. If it is from the storefront, then it fires when the first product is added to a new session. (The cart did not exist before.) For the API it means sending a `POST` request to `/carts`, (V3 and Storefront API). The `store/cart/updated` hook will also fire.|

```
This explanation is a bit hard to follow. Maybe simplify or shorten the sentences to make them easier to comprehend. For example:

This webhook will fire whenever a new cart is created either though a storefront or by sending a `POST` request to `/carts` (V3 and Storefront APIs). For carts created via storefront, the webhook will fire when the first product is added to a new session. (The cart did not exist before.) When you create a new cart using an API consumer, the `store/cart/updated` hook will fire in addition to `store/cart/created`.

> | store/cart/created | This webhook will fire whenever a new cart is created, either via a storefront shopper adding their first item to the cart, or when a new cart is created via an API consumer. If it is from the storefront, then it fires when the first product is added to a new session.(The cart did not exist before). For the API it means a `POST` to /carts, (V3 and Storefront API). The `store/cart/updated` hook will also fire.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| store/cart/created | Fires when a new cart is created either via a storefront shopper adding their first item to the cart or via an API consumer. If it is from the storefront, then it fires when the first product is added to a new session.(The cart did not exist before). For the API it means a `POST` to /carts, (V3 and Storefront API). The `store/cart/updated` hook will also fire.|

```

> | store/cart/updated | This webhook is fired whenever a cart is modified through the changes in its line items. Eg. when a new item is added to a cart or an existing item’s quantity is updated. This hook also fires when the email is changed during guest checkout or when an existing item is deleted. The payload will include the ID of the cart being updated. <br> This webhook also fires along with the cart created hook, because the first product being added to an empty cart triggers an update. It will also fire for the following events: <br> - Logging into customer account after creating a cart (email is inherited from customer account email) <br>- Entering email address via guest checkout <br> -Changing the email in guest checkout |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| store/cart/updated | This webhook fires whenever you modify a cart by changing its line items. For example, when you add a new item to a cart or update an existing item’s quantity. This hook also fires when you change the email during guest checkout or when you delete an existing item. The payload will include the ID of the cart being updated. <br> This webhook also fires along with the cart created hook, because the first product being added to an empty cart triggers an update. It will also fire for the following events: <br> - Logging into customer account after creating a cart (email is inherited from customer account email) <br>- Entering email address via guest checkout <br> -Changing the email in guest checkout |

```

Reviewer: I tried to remove passive voice without altering the meaning.

> | store/cart/deleted| This webhook will fire whenever a cart is deleted. This will occur either when all items have been removed from a cart and it is auto-deleted, or when the cart is explicitly removed via a `DELETE` request by an API consumer. This ends the lifecycle of the cart. The  `store/cart/updated`  webhook will also fire when the last item is removed.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| store/cart/deleted| This webhook will fire whenever a user deletes a cart either by removing all items from the cart or by sending a `DELETE` request. The `store/cart/updated` webhook will also fire when the last item is removed.|

```

| store/cart/couponApplied | This webhook will fire whenever a new coupon code is applied to a cart. It will include the ID of the coupon code |

> | store/cart/abandoned | This webhook will fire once after a cart is abandoned. A cart is considered abandoned if no changes have been made for at least one hour after the last modified property. This hook is available for all store plans, regardless of whether the Abandoned Cart Saver feature is enabled.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| store/cart/abandoned | This webhook will fire once after a user abandons a cart. A cart is considered abandoned if no changes have been made for at least one hour after the last modified property. This hook is available for all store plans, regardless of whether the Abandoned Cart Saver feature is enabled.|

```
Can you add a link to learn more about the Abandoned Cart Saver feature?

| store/cart/converted | This hook fires when a cart is converted into an order, which is typically after the payment step of checkout on the storefront. At this point, the cart is no longer accessible and has been deleted. This hook returns both the cart ID and order ID for correlation purposes. |

The same response is returned for the following events.

* `store/cart/created`
* `store/cart/updated`
* `store/cart/deleted`
* `store/cart/abandoned`

<div class="HubBlock--callout">
<div class="CalloutBlock--info">
<div class="HubBlock-content">

### Note
> The `store/cart/abandoned` hook is triggered independently of the Abandoned Cart Saver feature, which is only available on [select plans](https://www.bigcommerce.com/essentials/pricing/). To learn more about the Abandoned Cart Saver, see [Using the Abandoned Cart Saver](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Using-the-Abandoned-Cart-Saver).

</div>
</div>
</div>

**Response fields**
- type -- can be cart or cart_line_item

> - id -- ID of the cart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `id` -- ID of the cart

```

```json
{
    "scope": "store/cart/created",
    "store_id": "1025646",
    "data": {
        "type": "cart",
        "id": "09346904-4175-44fd-be53-f7e598531b6c"
    },
    "hash": "352e4afc6dd3fc85ea26bfdf3f91852604d57528",
    "created_at": 1561482670,
    "producer": "stores/{store_hash}"
}
```

> ### The same response is returned for the following endpoints:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same response is returned for the following endpoints:

```

* `store/cart/couponApplied`

**Response fields**
- type -- can be cart or cart_line_item

> - id -- ID of the cart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `id` -- ID of the cart

```

> - couponId -- ID of the coupon

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `couponId`-- ID of the coupon

```

```json
{
    "scope": "store/cart/couponApplied",
    "store_id": "1025646",
    "data": {
        "type": "cart",
        "id": "09346904-4175-44fd-be53-f7e598531b6c",
        "couponId": 1
    },
    "hash": "4b7297d295141b660e8db5a0d99dfcdf459fe825",
    "created_at": 1561482761,
    "producer": "stores/{store_hash}"
}
```

> ### The same response is returned for the following endpoints:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same response is returned for the following endpoints:

```

* `store/cart/converted`

**Response fields**
- type -- Will always be cart

> - id - ID of the cart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `id` - ID of the cart

```

> - orderId - ID of the order created

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `orderId` - ID of the order created

```

```json
{
    "scope": "store/cart/converted",
    "store_id": "1025646",
    "data": {
        "type": "cart",
        "id": "d30016e2-23c0-4a90-884f-2e92ac135476",
        "orderId": 252
    },
    "hash": "b86db7c77d7ef8f90d6a8aefa56de32ccd776923",
    "created_at": 1561486893,
    "producer": "stores/{store_hash}"
}
```

## Cart line item

| Name | Description |
|-|-|

> | store/cart/lineItem/* | Subscribe to all cart line item events. This webhook will fire when a change occurs to line items in the cart. This can be when items are added to a cart, removed or updated.(Ex. change to quantity, product options or price). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| store/cart/lineItem/* | Subscribe to all cart line item events. This webhook will fire when a change occurs to line items in the cart. This can be when items are added to a cart, removed, or updated. For example, change to quantity, product options, or price. |

```

> | store/cart/lineItem/created | When a new item is added to the cart  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| store/cart/lineItem/created |This webhook will fire when a new item is added to the cart.  |

```

> | store/cart/lineItem/updated | When an item’s quantity has changed or the product options change. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| store/cart/lineItem/updated | This webhook will fire when an item’s quantity or product options change. |

```

> | store/cart/lineItem/deleted | When an item is deleted from the cart|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| store/cart/lineItem/deleted | This weekbook will fire when an item is deleted from the cart.|

```

> ### The same response is returned for the following endpoints:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same response is returned for the following endpoints:

```

* `store/cart/lineItem/created`
* `store/cart/lineItem/updated`
* `store/cart/lineItem/deleted`

**Response fields**

> - type -- can be cart or cart_line_item

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `type` -- can be `cart` or `cart_line_item`

```

> - id -- ID of the line item

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `id` -- ID of the line item

```

> - cartId -- ID of the cart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `cartId` -- ID of the cart

```

```json
{
    "scope": "store/cart/lineItem/created",
    "store_id": "1025646",
    "data": {
        "type": "cart_line_item",
        "id": "743bfd94-d5dd-47c5-9c19-6eec32ca6119",
        "cartId": "b0386708-fef3-45de-9d8b-fbe3031450a4"
    },
    "hash": "399321a1bf1ac1331e12826fb89f264b4c8d21a6",
    "created_at": 1561481786,
    "producer": "stores/{store_hash}"
}
```

## Category

| Name | Description |
|-|-|
| store/category/* | Subscribe to all store/category events |

> | store/category/created | Category is created |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| store/category/created | Fires when a category is created. |

```

> | store/category/updated | Category is updated |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| store/category/updated | Fires when a category is updated. |

```

> | store/category/deleted | Category is deleted |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| store/category/deleted | Fires when a category is deleted. |

```

> ### The same response is returned for the following endpoints:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same response is returned for the following endpoints:

```

* `store/category/created`
* `store/category/updated`
* `store/category/deleted`

**Response fields**

- type -- Will always be category

> - id -- ID of the category

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `id` -- ID of the category

```

```json
{
    "scope": "store/category/created",
    "store_id": "1025646",
    "data": {
        "type": "category",
        "id": 42
    },
    "hash": "dc3a47c15425d2c895dba674f86fe71a8f3b6459",
    "created_at": 1561480214,
    "producer": "stores/{store_hash}"
}
```
## Channel

| Name                    | Description                                              |
|-------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|

> | `store/channel/*`       | Subscribe to all `store/channel` events                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `store/channel/*`       | Subscribe to all `store/channel` events.                    |

```

> | `store/channel/created` | Fires when a channel is created via control panel or API |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `store/channel/created` | Fires when a channel is created via control panel or API. |

```

> | `store/channel/updated` | Fires when a channel is updated via control panel or API |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `store/channel/updated` | Fires when a channel is updated via control panel or API. |

```

```json
{
    "store_id":11111,
    "producer":"stores/abcde",
    "scope":"store/channel/created",
    "data":{
            "type":"channel",
            "id":173331
        },
    "hash":"3f9ea420af83450d7ef9f78b08c8af25b2213637"
 }
 ```

> | Property | Description              |

Reviewer: Why was this done as a table when the rest of the document uses list?

|----------|--------------------------|
| `type`   | Will always be `channel` |
| `id`     | The ID of the channel    |

> Updates to the following fields trigger a `store/channel/updated` event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Updates to the following fields trigger a `store/channel/updated` event:

```

* `name`
* `external_id`
* `status`
* `is_listable_from_ui`
* `is_visible`
* `is_enabled` (to be deprecated)
* `config_meta`

## Customer

| Name | Description |
|-|-|
| store/customer/* | Subscribe to all store/customer events |

> | store/customer/created | A new customer is created|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| store/customer/created | Fires when a new customer is created. |

```

> | store/customer/updated | Customer is updated. Does not currently track changes to the customer address. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| store/customer/updated | Fires when a customer is updated. Does not currently track changes to the customer address. |

```

> | store/customer/deleted | Customer is deleted |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| store/customer/deleted | Fires when a customer is deleted. |

```

> | store/customer/address/created | Customer address is created |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| store/customer/address/created | Fires when a customer address is created. |

```

> | store/customer/address/updated | Customer address is updated |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| store/customer/address/updated | Fires when a customer address is updated. |

```

| store/customer/address/deleted | Customer address is deleted |
| store/customer/payment/instrument/default/updated | Customer default payment instrument is updated |

### The same response is returned for the following endpoints:
* `store/customer/created`
* `store/customer/updated`
* `store/customer/deleted`
* `store/customer/payment/instrument/default/updated`

**Response fields**

> - type -- Will always be customer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `type` -- will always be customer

```

- id -- ID of the customer
```json
{
    "scope": "store/customer/created",
    "store_id": "1025646",
    "data": {
        "type": "customer",
        "id": 32
    },
    "hash": "8768ab15aa86c6d73c7e4c3efbaee072110ad1d2",
    "created_at": 1561481571,
    "producer": "stores/{store_hash}"
}
```

> ### The same response is returned for the following endpoints:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same response is returned for the following endpoints:

```

* `store/customer/address/created`
* `store/customer/address/updated`
* `store/customer/address/deleted`

**Response fields**

> - type -- Will always be customer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `type` -- will always be customer

```

> - id -- ID of the customer address

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `id`-- ID of the customer address

```

> - address

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `address`

```

- Variant (deleted)
- Visibility

## Shipment

| Name | Description |
|-|-|

> | store/shipment/* | Subscribe to all store/shipment events |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| store/shipment/* | Subscribe to all store/shipment events. |

```

> | store/shipment/created | Shipment is created |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| store/shipment/created | Fires when a shipment is created. |

```

> | store/shipment/updated | Shipment is updated |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| store/shipment/updated | Fires when a shipment is updated. |

```

> | store/shipment/deleted | Shipment is deleted |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| store/shipment/deleted | Fires when a shipment is deleted. |

```

> ### The same response is returned for the following endpoints:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same response is returned for the following endpoints:

```

* `store/shipment/created`
* `store/shipment/updated`
* `store/shipment/deleted`

**Response fields**

> - type -- Will always be shipment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `type`-- will always be shipment

```

> - id -- ID of the shipment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `id`-- ID of the shipment

```

> - orderId -- ID of the order

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `orderId` -- ID of the order

```
